hello this is pressure Locker and this
is the third video in the series of how
to solve the Rubik's Cube I'm going to
explain how to solve the first layer of
the queue
alright let's get started solving the
cube the pieces are thoroughly mixed up
and now the first step in the layer
method is to create the white cross so
we're going to look for the 4 edge
pieces which have white on one side and
another color on another it happens that
one of those edge pieces is already next
to the white Center so here we have a
green and white edge piece and to put
that in position we simply rotate the
top face until we get the green to match
the green Center so we've completed one
of the four that are necessary for the
white cross so now we need to identify
the remaining three pieces so here's
another piece which is white and red we
can identify the white and blue piece
and finally here we have a white and
orange piece so we'll deal with this
case first it's the easiest so let's say
you're looking at orange and white is at
the bottom so you're looking at one
color and at the bottom is white so in
order to get this to the right position
you rotate it around until your edge
piece matches the center then you rotate
the face you're looking at two times and
that will bring the edge piece in its
proper position and most importantly we
have not messed up the green edge piece
that we had solved before so now we're
going to put the remaining edge pieces
in position here we have blue and white
and we move that to the blue face so
this is like the previous case except
the two colors are flipped so we're
going to need to do something different
to get this piece in position
so in this case we do the move down
right front prime F prime and then R
prime and now you'll see that the blue
edge piece has been put in position and
we haven't messed up the orange or green
pieces
so there's a final case
all right so here's the final case where
you have an edge piece that's along the
center it's in the middle layer so how
can you move this piece into correct
position you basically want to rotate it
and now you're basically looking at this
is the same case as the blue case so you
have the red and white edge piece that's
in position where you're looking at the
white face so we again do D our F Prime
and then our prime so those are the four
cases of how you can find the edge
pieces and this is how you put them
together to be in the white cross
alright we've completed the white cross
and now we need to complete the four
corners and put them in the correct
position and correct orientation in one
case you may already see a corner that's
in the correct position with the correct
orientation in that case you're lucky
and you don't need to do anything
there's another case where the corner is
in the right position but it's in the
wrong orientation and finally if a
corner is not already on the top layer
then it has to be on the bottom layer
because the corners can only go in
certain positions so we're going to show
how you can get all of these corner
pieces in the right spot with the right
orientation so here we need to change
the orientation of this corner and you
can see it clearly changes when you
rotate one of the sides so here's one
way that you can get the corner to have
the correct orientation the corner is in
the upper right so we're going to need
to move the right side so we're going to
go our prime D prime R and now we have
the corner that's along the bottom and
we see that one of the faces is white
that we're looking at so if we rotate it
we find that we'll be able to match the
orange face of this corner and we want
to move it to the top so when you have a
case where your corner has white on one
side and is matching the other side you
can go our prime D prime R and that will
bring the corner up so that's what
happens when you have the corner on the
bottom-right you need to move it to the
top right
here's another corner we see a white
face and we have a blue face so we're
going to rotate it around and now we're
matching the blue edge the blue face to
the blue Center and we want to move the
corner from the bottom left to the upper
left so we do that with L D and L Prime
so we move this corner into position and
we have a messed up any of the other
corners so now we just have one more
corner that we need to put into place
and I'm just going to move the cube
around a little bit because I want to
orient the corner in a certain way so it
might be the case that the corner you're
looking at has white at the bottom so in
the previous two cases white was on one
of the sides now we cannot match any of
the sides to the center we have green
and red we can't match it because white
is at the bottom so in order to do this
we're going to have to change the
orientation of that corner so when the
corner is in the bottom right we go our
prime D Prime two times and then our and
now the corner will have changed its
orientation because we can see the white
face and now we can match the other
color to one of the sides so since the
corner is in the bottom right we go our
prime D prime and our so now we've
solved the entire top layer I hope you
like this video please click through to
watch the next video on how to solve the
middle layer of the cube please
subscribe to my channel I make videos on
math and game theory you can support me
on patreon catch me on my blog mind your
decisions on Twitter at presh tall
Walker and you can get my books listed
on my website